CORE JAVA IMPORTANT QUESTIONS
1.	what is java and its features
•	Java is a programming language and a platform.
•	Java is a high level, robust, secured and object-oriented programming language.
•	Platform: Any hardware or software environment in which a program runs, is known as a platform. Since Java has its own runtime environment (JRE) and API, it is called platform.
1.	how to set path?
2.	Explain about JVM,JRE,JDK
3.	Internal details of jvm?
4.	Elaborate public static void main(String args[]):
•	Public : is an Access Modifier, which defines who can access this Method. Public means that this Method will be accessible by any Class(If other Classes are able to access this Class.).
•	Static : is a keyword which identifies the class related thing. This means the given Method or variable is not instance related but Class related. It can be accessed without creating the instance of a Class.
•	Void : is used to define the Return Type of the Method. It defines what the method can return. Void means the Method will not return any value.
•	main: is the name of the Method. This Method name is searched by JVM as a starting point for an application with a particular signature only.
•	String args[] : is the parameter to the main Method.
1.	variables and datatypes
2.	what is hashcode?
3.	what is Object and Class
4.	oops concepts
5.	what is encapsulation
6.	how we can protect the data
7.	what is method overloading and method overriding
8.	what is inheritance and types of inheritance
9.	can java support multiple inheritance if not why??
10.	what is constructor..default and parameterized constructor??
11.	what is static keyword
12.	what is static Initializer block,static variables and static methods
13.	what are non static members and their memory management
14.	what is this keyword
15.	super keyword
16.	what is polymorphism and static polymorphism and dynamic polymorphism
17.	Abstract class and Interface and their differences
18.	access modifiers
19.	what is exception and exception hierarchy??
20.	method overriding with throws clause
21.	about try and catch blocks
22.	about multiple catch blocks and nested try block
23.	what is finally block
24.	what is the use of throw keyword
25.	diff bw throw, throws and throwable??
26.	diff bw final,finally and finalize
27.	Return value from try, catch and finally block??
28.	Diff bw Error and Exception
29.	diff bw ClassNotFoundException and NoClassDefFoundError??
30.	what are custom exceptions
31.	what are checked and unchecked
32.	what is multithreading
33.	life cycle of a thread
34.	in how many ways we can create threads??
35.	what is Thread Scheduler
36.	sleep() method in java
37.	how we can start thread and can we start thread twice??
38.	what is the use of run() method??
39.	can we call run() method instead of start() method
40.	join() method in threads
41.	Thread Priority
42.	what is Daemon Thread and Thread Pool??
43.	What is Thread Synchronization
44.	what is Synchronized block and static Synchronization
45.	What is deadlock explain??
46.	what is Inter Thread Communication??
47.	Differnce bw Collection and Collections
48.	diff bw list and set
49.	diff bw ArrayList and LinkedList
50.	what is HashMap and Hashtable
51.	what is Comparable and Comparator??
52.	What is TreeSet
53.	what are the cursors and how many types of cursors are there and for what they are used for??
54.	Diff bw ArrayList and Vector??
55.	What is String,StringBuffer and StringBuilder Classes
56.	Strings are immutable or not??if not why explain??

